# Server Scripts

## report_vnstat.sh

### About

Bandwidth reporting script that utilises `vnstat` to provide email notifications to system administrators with bandwidth usage details for the previous week, day or month.

### Configuration

The following dependencies are required:

* [`vnstat`](http://humdi.net/vnstat/)
	* Provides bandwidth monitoring via the terminal.
	* Available via most package managers, for example:
		* Debian variants: `apt-get install vnstat`
		* Red Hat variants: `yum install vnstat`
* `sendmail`
	* Available via most package managers, for example:
		* Debian variants: `apt-get install sendmail`
		* Red Hat variants: `yum install sendmail`
	* The script will pipe the contents of the report into the `sendmail` executable for email delivery.

*Note that these instructions do not detail the installation and configuration of the above packages.*

The following variables must be set in the script:

* `MODE`
	* Determines the range of bandwidth information reported, must be one of `daily`, `weekly` or `monthly`.
* `TO_EMAIL`
	* The email addess to which the bandwidth report is sent by `sendmail`.
* `CMD_VNSTAT`
	* The path to the installed `vnstat` executable.
* `CMD_SENDMAIL`
	* The path to the installed `sendmail` executable.

### Usage

The script can be invoked manually, however ideally it should be invokved through a cron job.

Alternatively, the script can be placed into the `/etc/cron.daily`, `/etc/cron-weekly` and / or the `/etc/cron.monthly` directories, which will be automatically invoked at the respective frequencies. **Note that in order for the script to be detected in these directories, the extension `.sh` should be removed**.

### Notes

* All logs generated by the script are redirected to `stdout`. It is normally the responsbility of the invoker to handle the log output.